---
title: GitHub Pages Website
date: 2024-04-17 13:40 +0200
categories: [projects,github]
tags: [website,github_pages,github_actions,ci/cd]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

<div style="background-image: url('https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1501504905252-473c47e087f8?q=80&w=2574&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D'); 
            background-size: cover; 
            background-position: center; 
            width: 100%; 
            height: 50px;">
</div>




# The ol' website be gone!

My old website that I used for blogging and personal documentation was hosted on a webdomain and created with wordpress plugin Elementor. It was a fun first website project but the cost and husstle of logging in, making changes, and making sure everything was up to date called for some new ideas.

## An open-source site generator made by GitHub?

### Yeah you heard right, it's free and called Jakyll

Since I started taking GitHub more seriously as I transitioned from Behavioral Science and working with humans to IT, I figured that there had to be a easier way to document and publish my projects online.

After some research I found out that GitHub has its own version of websites called **GitHub Pages**, and along with **GitHub Actions** I could create something simple, effective, and test out new technologies on my quest of one day working as a DevOps / Cloud Engineer. 

I found a Jekyll theme called Chirpy that seemed simple enough, with good SEO, does not require a database, no upgrades or updates, is easy to maintain and blazingly fast. A place where I could centralize my notes and posts and have them easily accessable from the web



# Feeling the buzz of making your own website?

Then look no further as you will be provided with all the sources needed to launch your own Chirpy site in no time at all with the links below.


[Getting started with Chirpy](https://chirpy.cotes.page/posts/getting-started/)

[Chirpy Jekyll Theme](https://github.com/cotes2020/jekyll-theme-chirpy/)

[Jekyll themes for you to choose](https://jekyllrb.com/showcase/)


//Cheers - Dawid